.TH "cmark" "1" "November 30, 2014" "LOCAL" "General Commands Manual"
.SH "NAME"
\fBcmark\fR
\- convert CommonMark formatted text to HTML
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 6n
\fBcmark\fR
[options]
file*
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBcmark\fR
converts Markdown formatted plain text to either HTML, groff man,
CommonMark XML, or CommonMark, using the conventions
described in the CommonMark spec.  It reads input from \fIstdin\fR
or the specified files (concatenating their contents) and writes
output to \fIstdout\fR.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 12n
.B \-\-to, \-t \f[I]FORMAT\f[]
Specify output format (\f[C]html\f[], \f[C]man\f[], \f[C]xml\f[],
\f[C]commonmark\f[]).
.TP 12n
.B \-\-width \f[I]WIDTH\f[]
Specify a column width to which to wrap the output. For no wrapping, use
the value 0 (the default).  This option currently only affects the
commonmark renderer.
.TP 12n
.B \-\-sourcepos
Include source position attribute.
.TP 12n
.B \-\-hardbreaks
Treat newlines as hard line breaks.  If this option is specified,
hard wrapping is disabled, regardless of the value given with \-\-width.
.TP 12n
.B \-\-normalize
Consolidate adjacent text nodes.
.TP 12n
.B \-\-validate-utf8
Validate UTF-8, replacing illegal sequences with U+FFFD.
.TP 12n
.B \-\-smart
Use smart punctuation.  Straight double and single quotes will
be rendered as curly quotes, depending on their position.
\f[C]\-\-\f[] will be rendered as an en-dash.
\f[C]\-\-\-\f[] will be rendered as an em-dash.
\f[C]...\f[] will be rendered as ellipses.
.TP 12n
.B \-\-help
Print usage information.
.TP 12n
.B \-\-version
Print version.
.SH "AUTHORS"
John MacFarlane, Vicent Marti, Kārlis Gaņģis, Nick Wellnhofer.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
CommonMark spec:  \f[C]http://spec.commonmark.org\f[].
